hey how's it going guys this is Dave TV
and I never thought I'd do a video on
hard drives let alone external hard
drives cuz that's some pretty boring
but in my search for trying to find a
faster workstation for video edits I
discovered some really interesting
things about external hard drives so I
thought I'd share it with you guys here
it is so the first thing we need to talk
about is who really needs a fast
external drive I mean faster drives are
always nice but there comes a point
where it's not really worth paying money
for a drive that you're just gonna use
for the occasional backup but there are
some cases where you would really
benefit from a fast external drive and
one of these is when you do video
editing because having just one drive
for video edits is really bad it doesn't
matter how awesome your computer is if
you're only using one drive you're gonna
stunt your workflow a lot
the reasoning is that if you're working
on a video you're gonna be reading and
writing a lot of data at once and so if
you have one drive has to do all the
reading and all the writing at the same
time so that's not a good thing and to
make matters worse if you're on a
notebook you can't really add internal
storage so currently in terms of
affordable or just inexpensive external
drives there's only several options
there's use be two drives which top out
at around 40 megabytes per second and
there's USB 3 drives which you can set
up and raid but usually you can only get
about 150 megabytes per second with
those and there are Thunderbolts and
firewire options but those are pretty
expensive and quite frankly not that
much faster but the cool thing I found
are these USB 3 drives with something
called you ASP which stands for USB
Attached scuzzy protocol and that just
has acronyms within acronyms but to make
it short the drives with you ASP are
amazing you can easily get 400 megabytes
per second on read and write so you get
yourself an SSD like a crucial MX 100 or
something and you pick up a you ASP
enclosure and you basically have hard
drive speeds as fast as in regular
internal SSD so for me my render times
improves about 5 or 10% nothing crazy
but it's still nice but the biggest
improvement is during editing so ever
since switching over to an external
drive that has you ASP to store my media
files like the raw footage previewing in
4k doesn't have any stutter anymore so
if you're just getting into video
editing
using a notebook like I am get one of
these things your workflow will be so
much faster now having an external drive
like this isn't only for video editing
the same thing applies to photo editing
or even games you can store all your
games onto a drive with you asp and will
run as fast or potentially faster than
if you install that on to your main boot
drive
that's just how fast these drives are
and if you want to take it to the next
level for portability instead of using a
full u asp enclosure i actually
purchased a couple of these u asp
enabled cables and these guys just plug
directly into your hard drive so if you
have a pair of these cables you leave
one of these cables at work and then you
have another one at home and whenever
you want you just unplug your drive and
bring it around with you it's pretty
awesome so hopefully you guys learned a
thing or two from that I tried to keep
the video short just because it's hard
drives right but if you liked it give me
some thumbs and if you loved it give me
some subs it's been nice I'll see you
guys next time